Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to be getting the players viewpoint.
It's incredibly useful because knowing where the players looking means we know what they're looking
at.
And so we can actually reach out into the world from the player and grab things.
We will be taking another look at our parameters.
Now we touched upon them at the end of the last section.
They are a bit nasty because they actually change is a function that changes the arguments that are
passed into it.
So we're going to find a way of marking up out parameters and that's really useful.
Now there are two schools of thought on that.
One of them is that you should kind of recognize them and not expect them to be marked up.
However we can also do is make our own macro so we can make sure that we know that there are out parameters
and that anybody reading our code also can see just by glancing at it that they are out parameters it
helps them understand what our code is trying to do and then we'll continuously lock out the players
viewpoints to our console.
Okay.
So over MVS code let's have a look at the tech component and pseudocode up what we're going to try to
achieve over the next door the coming lectures anyway.
So we need to get the players viewpoint so get the players viewpoint.
That's the first thing we need to do.
Then we need to log that out and everything else that can be part of that.
And then we need a way of reaching out from the player.
Now we're going to use something called recasting for that so it's like sending out an arm or a vector
straight out from where the player's looking and it will have a distance.
So we will recast out to a certain distance and that would be our reach and then we can change the distance
at which the player can reach and the reach will be a private member variable that we can adjust for
a bit to play tuning.
I remember playing the witness a great game but one of the sort of funny quirks of it was if you were
playing on a really high resolution monitor you could actually adjust some of the controls as long as
you could see them you could adjust them which I found remarkably didn't actually have to be right up
against the puzzle in order to solve it.
And I know I've managed to solve a few that I shouldn't have been able to just because it was Ray casted
probably out to infinity.
Okay.
And then of course talking about what it hits.
So see what we're hitting.
And then of course we can work out is that something we can actually pick up.
Okay.
So let's focus on this top one here the getting the players viewpoints.
Now how do we go ahead and do this.
Well I could just tell you what it is but we could go and refer to the unreal documentation.
Okay.
So either I have to use Google of course you can use any search engine you like.
So let's just search forget play a few points.
I'm going to go you view.
Well they we're going to get player viewpoint you before.
Okay.
So this may be a bit contrived Google kind of knows what I'm up to.
Maybe they're listening to me.
Okay so we've got a selection here.
Just pick the top one hacker at a location rotation get PLAYER Oh look who would have thought that we
would come up on this Google search.
Okay let's.
Let's ignore that that's down there for the moment and have a look at this top one here a player controller
gets player viewpoint.
Okay.
So as I say that's a bit contrived because we know kind of where we're looking but you could see there
gets player view actually came up with the right search suggestion and we can see that's that's parts
of the player controller we already know how to get the player controller.
So this is great everything's lining up here.
And of course we need to include a header file so it wouldn't have necessarily been easy to work that
out unless we have it down here there's no game framework forward slash gets player viewpoint it's the
player controller that we need.
So we're going to need to hash include that at the top of our file.
Otherwise we're not going to be able to include it to get a copy that go back over to our code and that
the top here I'm going to hash include the player controller and remember here that we want to leave
the grabber h as at the bottom one all the time.
Okay.
So game framework player controller H.
So then we can go in here and we can start searching for the player's viewpoints.
Now what I'd like you to do if you feel comfortable with it is to pull the video now and try and do
that yourself for the rest of you that's absolutely fine if you don't feel confident enough to do that
then just stick with me and we'll continue.
Now of course the others are paused and completed it by now.
So let's just carry on.
So we're going to need to get the world again.
So let's go ahead and get.
World we go.
And then it was the first player controller and we're missing something else aren't we.
We needing to have our world in here as well.
So we're going to hash include just like before the engine forward slash world.
There we go.
So now we should be able to auto complete on here.
Now we go takes a few minutes first player controller that's the one so we're now at the level of the
controller itself.
But we want to get the view.
So if we hover over this we will see that it's a pointer so we can use the arrow to dive deeper and
I don't know where this will be so I'm going to type him viewpoint.
We know we're looking at that and they go it's a getter is get a player viewpoint gets actors eyes viewpoint.
Interesting.
So we've got a couple of potential options there.
Let's see what this is going to return.
We're going to return.
OK.
So it's going to take in a location and a rotation and out parameter those back to us.
Now this is an example here where we can quite clearly see that they are out parameters but we will
also mark up with a macro in a moment to be explicit that these are in fact out parameters.
That's something we didn't do earlier on in the ball cow section and to just reinforce the whole out
parameter thing we can see that this is a void it's not returning anything.
But the fact that we have our parameters means it is going to modify something so it can be very confusing
if you just read your code and that's our parameter macro that we're going to create is going to help
us make sure that that doesn't confuse us okay.
So in order to use this properly we're going to have to declare a couple of variables that we can use.
Now when we hovered over here we can see that it's going to be an effector and an F rotator.
And we can call them location and rotation and we can call them play a viewpoint location player viewpoint
rotation.
It's entirely up to you how you name them.
But obviously when things start to get a bit logic gets a bit confusing but we do want them to also
be descriptive.
So we're going to have an F vector.
There we go.
And I'm going to call it play viewpoints capital P there to keep things in line.
Location and then we're going to have an F rotator.
I thought I went onto a new line there and we're going to call this the play of viewpoints rotation
and we're going to pass those in to our Get to player viewpoint it's expecting those arguments to be
passed in there we can see too few arguments and we're also expecting it to modify those as well so
we're going to pass in the player viewpoint location and then the rotation the order does matter.
So player location comma player rotation.
Excellent.
Now depending on your screen in your resolution you may find this is a wee bit long but there's no harm
in separating them out like so remember the whitespace that's there doesn't really matter so we can
break things apart like this and now you can leave it there on the end or you can bring it down onto
another line like so so it's quite clear that these are all together remember that indentation although
it means nothing to the compiler it means everything for our readability now we've got to be aware that
these two here are going to be modified that can be a bit iffy so we're going to mark them in a moment
because we are going to be logging out to test because it's important that we know that things are working
I thought I put a double slash in that I obviously did not.
There we go.
Okay Sara how do we go ahead and use this macro.
I keep mentioning so that we know that these are our parameters.
Well we go right at the top just underneath our hash includes we can hash define something and the beauty
of hash defining something is that we're now going to be able to use this keyword that we've made out.
Now one thing to bear in mind with that is that there are some keywords that are protected however out
we're just going to leave it blank because it's not doing anything it's just going to mark up our code.
So we know that these are out parameters and what we can then do is go down and type in that macro that
we've created down here.
So we've gone out and out and then it is very clear that these are both out parameters.
I do want to reinforce that out does absolutely nothing in terms of the code is just for our readability
and what it will do is just before we go through and compile it will substitute out with absolutely
nothing.
So it's essentially removed from our code and that leads us nicely onto our challenge.
I'd like you to go ahead and log the viewpoint every tech so locked the viewpoint position and direction
every tick.
Now here's a hint you may need to use to string.
We've used it before so this should be quite comfortable for you and get used to working with different
data types.
Now do give it some time.
If you're struggling one of the things that I see people do far too often is especially when they're
new to code and they give up whilst their brain is still processing things so do give it about 20 minutes
or so if you're struggling with trying to log the viewpoint every tech.
So we're going to be logging out and we need to log that position and direction every take tech now
carry on watching for my solution afterwards if you've not managed to do it and hopefully it will you
will absorb it over time.
So go ahead pause video now and give it a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and log the viewpoint out every take.
So let's go ahead and much like before the log at the top here saying reporting for duty on this bit
of white space there that's clean that's up logging out.
So once again it's gonna be a gooey log is going to be log temp and I I don't know what color shall
we do it should we just do it normal yet.
Let's let's do it yellow again.
So it stands out amongst everything else so that's just going to be a warning in this particular case.
And then our text macro and now this is where we need to think about it.
So we're going to do the location is something.
And the rotation is something else.
So rotation.
There we go.
And we need some format specifies in here now because we're going to a string we're going to have percentage
s and the same here percentage as I think the spacing there is absolutely fine.
I'm not sure what we're going to get.
Actually there's going to be three values with the location our rotation will it just be the one value
or.
Well let's see what comes out of this as we go.
Okay.
So with that that we need first of all we need that reference because it's going to be an F string that's
coming back.
The first thing that we probably want here is the player viewpoint or location so player viewpoint location
dots to string.
Remember your brackets.
And then we need our second one you probably guessed this already as we go along this is going to be
the rotation.
And then once again dot to string.
OK.
Now that is another long line.
So once again we can bring that down on a tablet set and so it's clear and do the same here.
And then finally that one there again.
That's entirely up to you in your code style if you decide to truncate lines like that.
You may find that you've just got too much on screen anyway and that just helps it be a lot more readable
for you.
And it does separate things out especially if you started to build up lists of things.
So let's go ahead save that go over into unreal and compile our code OK.
The is complete.
So it was a good sign.
And let's press play.
Would you look at that we've got the rotation coming down and if we start moving.
And would you look at that we've got our location and our rotation.
Okay.
So our rotation going round is which direction we're looking and both up and down.
I've got no easy way of rolling my character at the moment.
So there are values going to stay zero.
That's really awesome.
Let's try moving around.
Would you look at that.
I've got a series of numbers there and that's exactly what I wanted to see.
Perfect.
So we now know exactly where our character is in the world we can use that information and we know exactly
which direction they're looking in.
Perfect.
How did you guys get on looking forward to seeing your work come together.
And I'll see you all in the next lecture.